Now that our error messages will get error messages during development and reading them is a super important
thing to do because they really can help us find out what's wrong.
Now let's move on to errors which don't necessarily throw error messages or where you need to dig a
bit deeper to find the root cause and let's for example say that in app Jesus we wanted to find out
if we were really deleting the right goal here to find out whether that's the case we can console log
our goal I.D. here maybe add some info text like to be deleted in front of this so that we get some
information about what's getting printed here and then we have our list of course goals here.
So that's the list without the item being deleted.
And then we would want to see it after that being deleted.
But the way this set state function here works the end the way react updates to state.
Just printing the course goals again and this line won't give us the already updated course goals instead
that will only be updated in the next renderer cycle.
So we'll not see our course cold stare but that's no problem.
We just need to lock this at a different place we locked is right here in our component there we locked
the core Scholes and this entire component will be re rendered when we update our core Scholes with
this line.
So this will rerun so we can maybe just also add a little console log re rendering component so that
we know that the course goal list we're printing after this one is to list after every referendum cycle
whereas the course goal list we're printing after it is to be deleted line is the course call list before
we delete it of course goal and now we added some console log statements that allow us to dive into
the flow of our code with that if I saved as the app restarts and we already see rendering component
which makes sense it's getting rendered for his time and we see we have an empty array which also makes
sense because we haven't added anything.
Now let's add a new goal maybe here an android finish the course if we do that we see the component
re renders makes sense because we added something and then most importantly for the other rendering
where we added an item we see that item here India Ray we all see the idea of that item and the value
which looks all right now let's add no item maybe learn React Native and add this and we see this here
we just now see that it's an array with two items.
If we expand this year so we're now able to look into our code and now let's delete item by clicking
on it and let's delete the finished core site and with the I.D. 0 thought 8 1 8 and so on.
So if I click finish the course you see it gets removed.
So it seems to work correctly and our consular confirms this.
We are re rendering Where re rendering our array with this idea only so with the other item which we
didn't delete and up there we see to be deleted as this idea here.
This log is coming from this line before be deleted it.
So it's still included but for the next render cycle we see that this idea here is indeed not included
anymore.
Of course that's a bit of a made up example.
We of course see that that's behaving correctly here but simply imagine you have a more complex flow
in your code you want to debug then such console log statements can really help you understand how your
code is running how often it's running and if the correct values are getting used.
So console log statements can really be helpful if you dumped them into your code just don't forget
tools or remove them eventually so that you don't crowd your code with tons of console log statements.